Traktor S3 (#308)
mixxxdj/manual: source/hardware/controllers/native_instruments_traktor_kontrol_s3.rst

Native Instruments Traktor Kontrol S3
=====================================

.. sectionauthor::
  Owen Williams <owilliams at mixxx.org>

.. versionadded:: 2.3.0

> 

Reviewer: The other mappings have this at the bottom of the first section, i.e. in line 19. This makes sense if we later add `versionchanged`, so please move it.

Author: done

Reviewer: Nope, not resolved yet.

Author: sorry, bad push

  - :hwlabel:`FX Enable` buttons: See Effect section below.
  - The :hwlabel:`FILTER` knob controls the Quick Effect superknob. By default, this uses a high-/low-pass filter, but a different effect can be chosen in the :ref:`Equalizer section of Mixxx' Preferences <preferences-equalizers>`.
  - :hwlabel:`EXT`: The :hwlabel:`EXT` button changes the fourth channel pregain (knob), pfl, and volume (slider) adjustments to operate with the Microphone input.  The microphone does not respond to EQ or effects.
  - :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`EXT`: Switches input from Mic to Line and back again.

The Main Volume knob on the S3 controls the volume of the S3's main
output in hardware, so it does not affect the software main output gain knob
in Mixxx by default. You can hold :hwlabel:`SHIFT` and turn the knob to adjust Mixxx'
main output gain.  Note that this will still also adjust the hardware gain, so
after you release :hwlabel:`SHIFT` you'll need to adjust the knob again.

Peak display is only generated from software. So if
you see clipping indicated, lower the gain of the playing decks or use :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Main Volume knob.

Decks
~~~~~

> ==========================================  ===========================================================================================================================================================================
> Control
> ==========================================  ===========================================================================================================================================================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==========================================  ===========================================================================================================================================================================
Control                                     Description
==========================================  ===========================================================================================================================================================================
```

Library knob press                          Load track selected in library to the deck.
:hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Library knob press       Eject track.
Small play button                           While held, plays the current track in the preview deck.  If you rotate the library knob while you hold the :hwlabel:`PLAY` button, Mixxx will scan through the track being previewed.
Star button                                 This button is not used.
List-plus button                            Adds the current track to the Auto DJ list.
:hwlabel:`VIEW` button                      Move focus of library control between left-hand tree and main list.
==========================================  ===========================================================================================================================================================================

Transport Mode Buttons
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> =================================  ==========================================================
> Control
> =================================  ==========================================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=================================  ==========================================================
Control                            Description
=================================  ==========================================================
```

:hwlabel:`REV`                     Activates a reverse-roll (aka "censor") effect.
:hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`REV`  Turns on reverse playback mode.
:hwlabel:`GRID`                    Turns on Quantize mode.
:hwlabel:`FLUX`                    Turns on Slip mode.
:hwlabel:`JOG`                     Hold to use the wheels to quickly scroll through the track
=================================  ==========================================================

Looping
~~~~~~~

> ======================================   ================================================
> Control
> ======================================   ================================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
======================================   ================================================
Control                                  Description
======================================   ================================================
```

  - Relative Mode:

     - :hwlabel:`KEYLOCK`: Press to toggle keylock mode.
     - :hwlabel:`SYNC`: Press to beatsync, or press and hold to activate Sync Lock Mode.
     - Pitch slider: Adjusts playback speed.
     - Keylock + Pitch Slider: adjusts musical key
     - :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Pitch Slider: Allows the user to move the slider without any effect.

Effects
~~~~~~~

The FX setup is unusual on this controller.  Each deck has a single toggle button for effects, and on the right-hand side of the mixer there are five buttons that determine which effects are applied to every channel that has effects on.  This means it is not possible to use the controller to select one effect for one deck, and another effect for another.  You can still make these choices in the Mixxx UI, however.

When the :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` button is off, the knob still controls the default Quick Effect, even if that button is not lit in the FX section. When the :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` button is on, the Quick Effect is only enabled if the Filter :hwlabel:`FX SELECT` button is on.  This means the Quick Effect is available on channels that don't have any other effects active.

> When turning :hwlabrl:`FILTER ENABLE` off, Mixxx will use soft takeover so the Quick Effect doesn't suddenly activate.

Reviewer: sorry, typo

```suggestion
When turning :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` off, Mixxx will use soft takeover so the Quick Effect doesn't suddenly activate.
```

Mapping options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are two user-friendly customizations possible on the S3:

  1. Toggle between Absolute and Relative pitch slider mode.
  2. Customize the colors for decks A, B, C, and D.

To make these changes, you need to edit to the mapping script file.

1.  Open Mixxx Preferences and select the Kontrol S3 in the side list.

> 2.  There will be a box labeled Preset Info, and that box will have a section
>     labeled :guilabel:`Script Files`.

Reviewer: This was changed in https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/pull/3387

```suggestion
2.  There will be a box labeled :guilabel:`Mapping Info`, and that box will have a section
    labeled :guilabel:`Mapping Files`.
```

Native Instruments Traktor Kontrol S3
=====================================

.. versionadded:: 2.3.0

> .. figure:: ../../_static/controllers/native_instruments_traktor_kontrol_s3.jpg

Reviewer: Please add labels to the controls (ideally use an SVG if possible) or remove.

Author: removed

   :align: center
   :width: 100%
   :figwidth: 100%
   :alt: Native Instruments Traktor Kontrol S3 (top view)
   :figclass: pretty-figures

   Native Instruments Traktor Kontrol S3 (top view)

> References:
> 
>   - `Manufacturer's product
>     page <https://www.native-instruments.com/en/products/traktor/dj-controllers/traktor-kontrol-s3/>`__
>   - `DJTechTools
>     review <https://djtechtools.com/2019/10/16/traktor-kontrol-s3-the-middle-child-for-the-mk3-traktor-generation/>`__
>   - `DJWORX
>     overview <https://djworx.com/the-traktor-kontrol-s3-we-have-it-but-not-the-software/>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `Manufacturer's product
    page <https://www.native-instruments.com/en/products/traktor/dj-controllers/traktor-kontrol-s3/>`__
```

I don't think review links should go into the manual. You can put them on a wiki page if you want.

Author: moving the reference to the bottom since it's not really important

`driver from Native
Instruments <https://www.native-instruments.com/en/support/downloads/drivers-other-files/>`__
and select the ASIO sound API in the Sound Hardware section of Mixxx's
Preferences.

With the S3 plugged in, a MIDI device is listed as an available
controller in Mixxx's Preferences. The controller uses
HID for the knobs, buttons, and other components on the device, so the
mapping can only be loaded when you select the HID device on the left
side of Mixxx's Preferences.

Mapping description
-------------------

Note that Mixxx doesn't have the concept of a single "master" deck for
sync. Instead, push and hold the sync button to "lock" sync on for all
decks you want to remain in sync. Or you can push Shift + Sync to lock
sync on. Refer to `the Mixxx
manual <http://www.mixxx.org/manual/2.0/chapters/djing_with_mixxx.html#master-sync>`__
for details.

Mixer
~~~~~

  - Gain, equalizer high/mid/low, and cue (headphones)
    behave as labelled.
  - FX Enable buttons: See Effect section below.
  - Filter: controls QuickEffect superknob. This controls the Filter
    effect by default, but a different effect can be chosen in the
    Equalizer section of Mixxs's Preferences.

>   - EXT: The EXT button changes the fourth channel pregain (knob), pfl, and volume (slider) adjustments to operate with the Microphone input.  The microphone does not respond to EQ or effects.

Reviewer: Please use

    :hwlabel:`EXT`

to refer to button labels.

Have a look at the Pionner DDJ-200 or Roland DJ-505 pages for reference.

Author: done

Reviewer: The line is unchanged though?

Author: sorry, fixed all the others and missed that one.  fixed

  - Shift + EXT: Switches input from Mic to Line and back again.

The Master Volume knob on the S3 controls the volume of the S3's master
output in hardware, so it does not affect the software master gain knob
in Mixxx by default. You can hold shift and turn the knob to adjust Mixxx's
master gain.  Note that this will still also adjust the hardware gain, so
after you release shift you'll need to adjust the knob again.

Peak display is only generated from software. So if
you see clipping indicated, lower the gain of the playing decks or use Shift + Master Volume.

Decks
~~~~~

>   - Pressing the library knob: Load track selected in library to the deck.

Reviewer: I think this would benefit from tables, like  on the DDJ-200 page.

Author: done

When the Filter Enable button is off, the knob still controls the default QuickEffect, even if that button is not lit in the FX section. When the Filter Enable button is on, the QuickEffect is only enabled if the Filter FX Select button is on.  This means the QuickEffect is available on channels that don't have any other effects active.

When turning Filter Enable off, Mixxx will use soft takeover so the QuickEffect doesn't suddenly activate.

Mapping options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are two user-friendly customizations possible on the S3:

  1. Toggle between Absolute and Relative pitch slider mode.
  2. Customize the colors for decks A, B, C, and D.

Making these changes is still a little awkward and we will be making
controller preferences easier to change in the future. For now you'll
have to make a small change to the mapping script file. Don't worry, the
actual edit only involves replacing a single word in a text file.

1.  Open Mixxx Preferences and select the Kontrol S3 in the side list.
2.  You should see a series of tabs at the top of the preferences

>     window, one of which is "Scripts". Select that tab.

Reviewer: The scripts tab has been removed.

Author: fixed

> 3.  Select "Traktor-Kontrol-S3-hid-scripts.js".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  Select :file:`Traktor-Kontrol-S3-hid-scripts.js`.
```

> 4.  Click "Open Selected File."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.  Click :guilabel:`Open Selected File.`
```

Native Instruments Traktor Kontrol S3
=====================================

.. sectionauthor::
  Owen Williams <owilliams at mixxx.org>

.. versionadded:: 2.3.0

The Kontrol S3 is an introductory 4 deck controller with good build
quality and integrated sound card. This is the first controller released
with the "S3" name.

The Kontrol S3 can run from USB bus power. Using the separate power
supply increases the brightness of the LEDs, which is helpful for using
it in daylight, and increases the volume of the headphone output.

  - `Manufacturer's product
    page <https://www.native-instruments.com/en/products/traktor/dj-controllers/traktor-kontrol-s3/>`__

Compatibility
-------------

Controller
~~~~~~~~~~

The Kontrol S3 is a USB class compliant audio and :term:`HID` device,
so it is compatible with Mixxx without any proprietary drivers on
GNU/Linux and Mac OS X. On Windows, it is recommended to install the
`driver from Native

> Instruments <https://www.native-instruments.com/en/support/downloads/drivers-other-files/>`__

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instruments <https://www.native-instruments.com/en/support/downloads/drivers-other-files/#traktorkontrols3>`__
```

> and select the ASIO sound API in the Sound Hardware section of Mixxx's
> Preferences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and select the ASIO :ref:`sound API <preferences-sound-api>` in the :ref:`Sound Hardware section of Mixxx's Preferences <preferences-sound-hardware>`.
```

With the S3 plugged in, a MIDI device is listed as an available

> controller in Mixxx's Preferences. The controller uses

Reviewer 2: Was this copied and pasted from another wiki page? Is this true for the S3? I didn't think it had MIDI I/O.

Author: Good catch.  (It does have a midi mode if you hold some buttons during startup, but that's not the default)

HID for the knobs, buttons, and other components on the device, so the
mapping can only be loaded when you select the HID device on the left
side of Mixxx's Preferences.

Mapping description
-------------------

> Note that Mixxx doesn't have the concept of a single "master" deck for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that Mixxx doesn't have the concept of a single "leader" deck for
```

sync. Instead, push and hold the :hwlabel:`SYNC` button to "lock" sync on for all
decks you want to remain in sync. Or you can push :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`SYNC` to lock

> sync on. Refer to `the Mixxx
> manual <../../chapters/djing_with_mixxx.html#master-sync>`__

Reviewer: This breaks in PDF builds!

```suggestion
sync on. Refer to :ref:`Sync Lock documentation <master-sync>`
```

for details.

.. hint:: There are two :hwlabel:`SHIFT` buttons, one for each side of the
          controller. Make sure you press the :hwlabel:`SHIFT` button on the
          same side as the control you want to modify.

Mixer
~~~~~

>   - Gain, equalizer high/mid/low, and cue (headphones)
>     behave as labelled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The :hwlabel:`GAIN` and equalizer :hwlabel:`HIGH`/:hwlabel:`MID`/:hwlabel:`LOW` knobs and the :hwlabel:`CUE` (headphones) button behave as labelled.
```

  - :hwlabel:`FX Enable` buttons: See Effect section below.

>   - Filter: controls QuickEffect superknob. This controls the Filter
>     effect by default, but a different effect can be chosen in the
>     Equalizer section of Mixxs's Preferences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The :hwlabel:`FILTER` knob controls the Quick Effect superknob. By default, this uses a high-/low-pass filter, but a different effect can be chosen in the :ref:`Equalizer section of Mixxx' Preferences <preferences-equalizers>`.
```

  - :hwlabel:`EXT`: The :hwlabel:`EXT` button changes the fourth channel pregain (knob), pfl, and volume (slider) adjustments to operate with the Microphone input.  The microphone does not respond to EQ or effects.
  - :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`EXT`: Switches input from Mic to Line and back again.

> The Master Volume knob on the S3 controls the volume of the S3's master
> output in hardware, so it does not affect the software master gain knob
> in Mixxx by default. You can hold :hwlabel:`SHIFT` and turn the knob to adjust Mixxx's
> master gain.  Note that this will still also adjust the hardware gain, so
> after you release :hwlabel:`SHIFT` you'll need to adjust the knob again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Main Volume knob on the S3 controls the volume of the S3's main
output in hardware, so it does not affect the software main output gain knob
in Mixxx by default. You can hold :hwlabel:`SHIFT` and turn the knob to adjust Mixxx'
main output gain.  Note that this will still also adjust the hardware gain, so
after you release :hwlabel:`SHIFT` you'll need to adjust the knob again.
```

Author: thanks for these!

Peak display is only generated from software. So if

> you see clipping indicated, lower the gain of the playing decks or use :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Master Volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you see clipping indicated, lower the gain of the playing decks or use :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Main Volume knob.
```

  - Absolute Mode:

     - :hwlabel:`KEYLOCK`: Press to toggle keylock mode.
     - :hwlabel:`SYNC`: Press to beatsync, or press and hold to activate Sync Lock Mode.
     - Pitch slider: Adjusts playback speed.
     - :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Pitch slider: Adjusts musical key
  - Relative Mode:

     - :hwlabel:`KEYLOCK`: Press to toggle keylock mode.
     - :hwlabel:`SYNC`: Press to beatsync, or press and hold to activate Sync Lock Mode.
     - Pitch slider: Adjusts playback speed.
     - Keylock + Pitch Slider: adjusts musical key
     - :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Pitch Slider: Allows the user to move the slider without any effect.

Effects
~~~~~~~

The FX setup is unusual on this controller.  Each deck has a single toggle button for effects, and on the right-hand side of the mixer there are five buttons that determine which effects are applied to every channel that has effects on.  This means it is not possible to use the controller to select one effect for one deck, and another effect for another.  You can still make these choices in the Mixxx UI, however.

> When the :hwlabel:`Filter Enable` button is off, the knob still controls the default QuickEffect, even if that button is not lit in the FX section. When the :hwlabel:`Filter Enable` button is on, the QuickEffect is only enabled if the Filter :hwlabel:`FX Select` button is on.  This means the QuickEffect is available on channels that don't have any other effects active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` button is off, the knob still controls the default Quick Effect, even if that button is not lit in the FX section. When the :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` button is on, the Quick Effect is only enabled if the Filter :hwlabel:`FX SELECT` button is on.  This means the Quick Effect is available on channels that don't have any other effects active.
```

> When turning Filter Enable off, Mixxx will use soft takeover so the QuickEffect doesn't suddenly activate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When turning :hwlabrl:`FILTER ENABLE` off, Mixxx will use soft takeover so the Quick Effect doesn't suddenly activate.
```

Native Instruments Traktor Kontrol S3
=====================================

.. sectionauthor::
  Owen Williams <owilliams at mixxx.org>

.. versionadded:: 2.3.0

The Kontrol S3 is an introductory 4 deck controller with good build
quality and integrated sound card. This is the first controller released
with the "S3" name.

The Kontrol S3 can run from USB bus power. Using the separate power
supply increases the brightness of the LEDs, which is helpful for using
it in daylight, and increases the volume of the headphone output.

Compatibility
-------------

Controller
~~~~~~~~~~

> The Kontrol S3 is a USB class compliant audio and HID device,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kontrol S3 is a USB class compliant audio and :term:`HID` device,
```

so it is compatible with Mixxx without any proprietary drivers on
GNU/Linux and Mac OS X. On Windows, it is recommended to install the
`driver from Native
Instruments <https://www.native-instruments.com/en/support/downloads/drivers-other-files/>`__
and select the ASIO sound API in the Sound Hardware section of Mixxx's
Preferences.

With the S3 plugged in, a MIDI device is listed as an available
controller in Mixxx's Preferences. The controller uses
HID for the knobs, buttons, and other components on the device, so the
mapping can only be loaded when you select the HID device on the left
side of Mixxx's Preferences.

Mapping description
-------------------

Note that Mixxx doesn't have the concept of a single "master" deck for
sync. Instead, push and hold the sync button to "lock" sync on for all
decks you want to remain in sync. Or you can push Shift + Sync to lock
sync on. Refer to `the Mixxx

> manual <http://www.mixxx.org/manual/2.0/chapters/djing_with_mixxx.html#master-sync>`__

Reviewer 3: This is an absolute URL of a Mixxx 2.0 manual page. This link should be relative.

Author: done

for details.

Mixer
~~~~~

  - Gain, equalizer high/mid/low, and cue (headphones)
    behave as labelled.
  - FX Enable buttons: See Effect section below.
  - Filter: controls QuickEffect superknob. This controls the Filter
    effect by default, but a different effect can be chosen in the
    Equalizer section of Mixxs's Preferences.
  - EXT: The EXT button changes the fourth channel pregain (knob), pfl, and volume (slider) adjustments to operate with the Microphone input.  The microphone does not respond to EQ or effects.

>   - Shift + EXT: Switches input from Mic to Line and back again.

Author: done

The Master Volume knob on the S3 controls the volume of the S3's master
output in hardware, so it does not affect the software master gain knob
in Mixxx by default. You can hold shift and turn the knob to adjust Mixxx's
master gain.  Note that this will still also adjust the hardware gain, so
after you release shift you'll need to adjust the knob again.

Peak display is only generated from software. So if

> you see clipping indicated, lower the gain of the playing decks or use Shift + Master Volume.

Author: I think I got all the other hwlabels

When the Filter Enable button is off, the knob still controls the default QuickEffect, even if that button is not lit in the FX section. When the Filter Enable button is on, the QuickEffect is only enabled if the Filter FX Select button is on.  This means the QuickEffect is available on channels that don't have any other effects active.

When turning Filter Enable off, Mixxx will use soft takeover so the QuickEffect doesn't suddenly activate.

Mapping options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are two user-friendly customizations possible on the S3:

  1. Toggle between Absolute and Relative pitch slider mode.
  2. Customize the colors for decks A, B, C, and D.

Making these changes is still a little awkward and we will be making
controller preferences easier to change in the future. For now you'll
have to make a small change to the mapping script file. Don't worry, the
actual edit only involves replacing a single word in a text file.

1.  Open Mixxx Preferences and select the Kontrol S3 in the side list.
2.  There will be a box labeled Preset Info, and that box will have a section

>     labeled "Script Files".

Author: cool

3.  Select "Traktor-Kontrol-S3-hid-scripts.js".
4.  Either the file should open in an editor, or you should see a file
    browser window with that file selected. If you see a file browser,
    right click the file and select an option to edit it.
5.  At the top of the file will be short instructions explaining how to edit
    the file.

Changes you make will take effect as soon as you save the file.

References
----------

  - `Manufacturer's product

>     page <https://www.native-instruments.com/en/products/traktor/dj-controllers/traktor-kontrol-s3/>`__

Reviewer: Currently, we have links as part of the first section, directly below the text (I. E. Not in a separate subsection).

We can discuss if putting them into a different "References" section at the end is better, but then we should do that for *all* mappings consistently, not just this one.

Author: let me know if the new placement is ok

Native Instruments Traktor Kontrol S3
=====================================

.. sectionauthor::
  Owen Williams <owilliams at mixxx.org>

The Kontrol S3 is an introductory 4 deck controller with good build
quality and integrated sound card. This is the first controller released
with the "S3" name.

The Kontrol S3 can run from USB bus power. Using the separate power
supply increases the brightness of the LEDs, which is helpful for using

> it in daylight, and increases the volume of the headphone output.

Reviewer 2: I know this was true of the older NI controllers. Is this still true? Can it run on USB bus power? NI's manual is unclear.

Author: yes, it runs in reduced brightness mode without power.

  - `Manufacturer's product
    page <https://www.native-instruments.com/en/products/traktor/dj-controllers/traktor-kontrol-s3/>`__

.. versionadded:: 2.3.0

Compatibility
-------------

Controller
~~~~~~~~~~

The Kontrol S3 is a USB class compliant audio and :term:`HID` device,
so it is compatible with Mixxx without any proprietary drivers on

> GNU/Linux and Mac OS X. On Windows, it is recommended to install the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GNU/Linux and macOS. On Windows, it is recommended to install the
```
Apple styles it as "macOS" now.

sync. Instead, push and hold the :hwlabel:`SYNC` button to "lock" sync on for all
decks you want to remain in sync. Or you can push :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`SYNC` to lock
sync on. Refer to :ref:`Sync Lock documentation <master-sync>`
for details.

.. hint:: There are two :hwlabel:`SHIFT` buttons, one for each side of the
          controller. Make sure you press the :hwlabel:`SHIFT` button on the
          same side as the control you want to modify.

Mixer
~~~~~

  - The :hwlabel:`GAIN` and equalizer :hwlabel:`HIGH`/:hwlabel:`MID`/:hwlabel:`LOW` knobs and the :hwlabel:`CUE` (headphones) button behave as labelled.
  - :hwlabel:`FX Enable` buttons: See Effect section below.
  - The :hwlabel:`FILTER` knob controls the Quick Effect superknob. By default, this uses a high-/low-pass filter, but a different effect can be chosen in the :ref:`Equalizer section of Mixxx' Preferences <preferences-equalizers>`.
  - :hwlabel:`EXT`: The :hwlabel:`EXT` button changes the fourth channel pregain (knob), pfl, and volume (slider) adjustments to operate with the Microphone input.  The microphone does not respond to EQ or effects.

>   - :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`EXT`: Switches input from Mic to Line and back again.

Reviewer 2: This is confusing. Is there a single input channel that can be changed between either the XLR/TRS combo jack or the RCA jacks, or does this toggle the combo jack between mic and line levels?

Author: This toggles the combo jack between mic and line levels

The Main Volume knob on the S3 controls the volume of the S3's main
output in hardware, so it does not affect the software main output gain knob
in Mixxx by default. You can hold :hwlabel:`SHIFT` and turn the knob to adjust Mixxx'
main output gain.  Note that this will still also adjust the hardware gain, so

> after you release :hwlabel:`SHIFT` you'll need to adjust the knob again.

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't have bothered mapping this, but I suppose it doesn't hurt?

Author: yeah it should be fine.

Peak display is only generated from software. So if
you see clipping indicated, lower the gain of the playing decks or use :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Main Volume knob.

Decks
~~~~~

==========================================  ===========================================================================================================================================================================
Control                                     Description
==========================================  ===========================================================================================================================================================================

> Library knob press                          Load track selected in library to the deck.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Library encoder press                          Load track selected in library to the deck.
```
Please fix for the rest of this section too

Author: fixed (myself, ignoring commit suggestion)

Left Encoder Turn                        Beatjump forward/backward.
:hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Left Encoder Turn     Adjust beatjump size.
Left Encoder Press                       Activates beatloop roll.
:hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Left Encoder Press    Activates a loop and then stops.
======================================   ================================================

Rate / Keylock
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are two ways the rate sliders can be mapped: Absolute, and Relative.  Absolute mode is the default. In this mode, the position of the pitch slider matches the on-screen pitch slider position.  If the sliders are misaligned, Mixxx engages "soft takeover mode" -- Mixxx won't update the value of the slider until the controller matches the GUI. In Relative mode, moving the slider always adjusts the value of the pitch slider, even if they don't match.

  - Absolute Mode:

     - :hwlabel:`KEYLOCK`: Press to toggle keylock mode.
     - :hwlabel:`SYNC`: Press to beatsync, or press and hold to activate Sync Lock Mode.
     - Pitch slider: Adjusts playback speed.
     - :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Pitch slider: Adjusts musical key
  - Relative Mode:

>      - :hwlabel:`KEYLOCK`: Press to toggle keylock mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - :hwlabel:`KEYLOCK`: Press to toggle keylock mode (toggles when releasing the button)
```

     - :hwlabel:`SYNC`: Press to beatsync, or press and hold to activate Sync Lock Mode.
     - Pitch slider: Adjusts playback speed.
     - Keylock + Pitch Slider: adjusts musical key
     - :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Pitch Slider: Allows the user to move the slider without any effect.

Effects
~~~~~~~

> The FX setup is unusual on this controller.  Each deck has a single toggle button for effects, and on the right-hand side of the mixer there are five buttons that determine which effects are applied to every channel that has effects on.  This means it is not possible to use the controller to select one effect for one deck, and another effect for another.  You can still make these choices in the Mixxx UI, however.

Reviewer 2: > determine which effects are applied to every channel that has effects on

How does the user select which decks have effects applied?

Author: see the "Assigning Effects" section

> When the :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` button is off, the knob still controls the default Quick Effect, even if that button is not lit in the FX section. When the :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` button is on, the Quick Effect is only enabled if the Filter :hwlabel:`FX SELECT` button is on.  This means the Quick Effect is available on channels that don't have any other effects active.

Reviewer 2: I am confused by the discrepancy between the code and the documentation here. The code seems much more complex and I see it switches to controlling the regular effects units but that's not mentioned at all here.

Author: this has been updated

     - Pitch slider: Adjusts playback speed.
     - Keylock + Pitch Slider: adjusts musical key
     - :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + Pitch Slider: Allows the user to move the slider without any effect.

Button Pads
~~~~~~~~~~~

The grid of 8 buttons have two possible trigger modes: Hotcues, and Samplers.

In Hotcues mode, pressing the number button will set the hotcue if none exists, and activate it if one does.
If you hold :hwlabel:`SHIFT` and press a button, it will clear that hotcue.

In Samplers mode, the buttons on the left side of the controller correspond to Samplers 1-8.
The buttons on the right side of the controller correspond to Samplers 9-16.
By default, pressing a number button will activate a sample.
Pressing the button again will stop sample playback.

You can change this behavior by editing the javascript file to set `TraktorS3.SamplerModePressAndHold = true;`.
In this mode, the sample will play while the button is held, and stop when you let go.

In both modes, holding :hwlabel:`SHIFT` and pressing a button will eject the sample if it is not playing, and will rewind the sample back to the beginning if it was playing.

Effects
-------

> Because the S3 is an entry-level controller, the FX setup is unusual and a little complex.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the S3 has limited effects controls, the FX setup is unusual and a little complex.
```

Press any :hwlabel:`FX SELECT` button to enter Effect Chain mode for that number chain.
If you press the same :hwlabel:`FX SELECT` button again, you'll return to Filter Mode.
Press a different :hwlabel:`FX SELECT` button to enter Effect Chain mode for that other chain.

Press and hold an :hwlabel:`FX SELECT` button, then press a :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` button to enter Effect Focus mode.
The :hwlabel:`FX SELECT` button will start blinking.
From left to right, the :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` buttons will focus on the first through fourth effects in the chain.
If you press any :hwlabel:`FX SELECT` button, you'll return to Effect Chain mode.

Soft Takeover
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The knobs have Soft Takeover mode enabled, which means you need to turn the physical knob to match the current position of the UI knob before the value will change.
If you are wondering why it seems like the values aren't changing, you may need to rotate the knob more.

Assigning Effects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can assign effects to individual decks in Filter Mode.
Press and hold :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE`, then press the desired :hwlabel:`FX SELECT` button or buttons.

> The :hwlabel:`FX SELECT` buttons that are bright are selected for that deck.

Reviewer 2: I'm very confused by this. QuickEffects cannot have their routing changed. Did you mean to say Chain Mode?

Reviewer 2: Also effects can't be routed individually, only chains

Effect Chain Mode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In Effect Chain Mode, the :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` buttons change color to match the selected FX button.
The lights will be dim if the effect is disabled, and bright if it is enabled.
Tap the :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` button to enable or disable the effect.

> Turn the first three filter knobs to adjust the meta knob for each effect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Turn the first three knobs to adjust the meta knob for each effect.
```
They're not filters in this context, so I think calling them such is confusing.

The last filter knob adjusts the meta knob for the whole chain.
This is to prevent sudden changes in sound when navigating between modes.

Effect Focus Mode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> In Effect Focus Mode, the :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` buttons represent Effect checkboxes, while the four knobs adjust the first four parameters of the selected effect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Effect Focus Mode, the :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` buttons represent effect button parameters, while the four knobs adjust the first four parameters of the selected effect.
```

In Effect Chain Mode, the :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` buttons change color to match the selected FX button.
The lights will be dim if the effect is disabled, and bright if it is enabled.
Tap the :hwlabel:`FILTER ENABLE` button to enable or disable the effect.
Turn the first three filter knobs to adjust the meta knob for each effect.

> The last filter knob adjusts the meta knob for the whole chain.

Reviewer 2: meta knob for the whole chain? There is no such thing. Do you mean the mix knob or the superknob?
